My Love for Cooking: A Creative Outlet and Cultural Connection

Growing up, my love for food was a constant. My parents, both excellent cooks, gave me an invaluable resource for gaining knowledge about cooking techniques and, most importantly, my own culture. As a Chinese person raised in America, I was surrounded by a melting pot of cuisines, but often ate popular American dishes at school or at restaurants. It was through my parents' cooking that I was exposed to the signature Chinese dishes that have become some of my favorite meals of all time.

For me, cooking is almost a form of therapy. I love having complete control over what I make and how I choose to do it. It's also a creative outlet, like a puzzle to figure out what you can create from the ingredients available to you. Cooking is a way of life, and just like food, it connects people. I have countless unforgettable nights cooking with friends and enjoying the most wild, amazing meals we've thrown together.

One of my favorite things about cooking is doing it for other people. During my junior and senior years at Tufts, living in off-campus housing gave me the perfect opportunity to host three annual events where I would cook for members of the swim team. These get-togethers served as a great way for our team to bond over good food and games. I made it a point to get everyone involved so they could feel like they had a piece of the meal, and also to realistically spread out the work required to feed 30-50 people.

I would host a Thanksgiving, Christmas, and Chinese New Year celebration for people to enjoy. The most fun and easiest meal to set up was dumplings. I would buy pounds of wrappers, meat, veggies, and sauces to make hundreds of dumplings. The night before, I would spend hours mixing and preparing the filling so that when friends arrived, they could get right to folding. Once I showed them how to fold, they were off to the races. We were like a dumpling factory, with trays and trays of dumplings moving from the folders into the kitchen. Since folding dumplings is not the easiest thing to do and requires some skill, many of the dumplings would come out in random shapes and sizes, each one different from the next. But that was half the fun, finding your own messed up "Frankenstein" dumpling among all the others once they were boiled.

Being able to cook has given me quality time with others that I will cherish forever, and the ability to make whatever food I want has given me a happiness that could rival anything.